sailing made easy with the American
Sailing Association now we're starting
to talk about how to slow the boat down
like I said you don't have to sail pedal
the metal all day long sometimes we just
want to take a break which is evening
too which doesn't mean I'm gonna eat so
you leave too
no it means we're gonna slow the boat
down by back winning the Jim on the
other side tack the boat but not move
the chip to the other side and you'll
see how that works in just a second crew
let's lock off your jib we're gonna
heave to so again they get ready all
right Helms a lead notice the same thing
as in tacking but this time the jib is
on the other side of the boat and you
can see right away how funny it looks
I had my boat my direction of my boat up
into the wind as much as possible and
the boat slows down it's the jib that's
pushing back on us and once you get once
you get installed it usually stays but
it takes a little bit of finesse to work
your way into it so don't get frustrated
just work your way into it the boat is
now whole - we've got our jib nice and
tight blowing our bow down when we have
our main tight remember the jib in the
main when they're on the same side work
together but when the jib is on the
wrong side they counteract each other
the main is trying to shove the bow up
the jib is trying to shove the bow down
we also counteract our forward motion by
putting the helm to Lee I can actually
take a spare piece of line I can put a
clove hitch in it and I can actually tie
my tiller to the lured side of the boat
so there we are secured hose to nice and
clean and solid sailing made easy the
American Sailing Association Tex
order your copy today at a si.com